# invoice-uploader: Upload and Manage Your Own Invoices and Receipts

# ✏️ Introduction of the App

An app built based on flutter + dart where it can assist personal or small business to manage their invoices for taxation purpose with ease by combining the jobs of auto renaming file name based on the custom category chose, with date of invoice selected, and records of invoice in spreadsheet automatically. *Whisper: I only been able to test on android :P*

# 📘 Purpose of the App

The main purpose of the app is to ensure individuals who need to do their own tax have an relief of managing their own invoices and receipts simply upload the invoices, select the category created by their own, enter the amount and date of the invoice, and click upload. The filename is autogenerated based on the category along with the date of invoice, and the basic details of the information will be also automatically append into the Google Spreadsheet created automatically, as well as the photo upload to Google Drive based on the folder created automatically.

---
# ⚠️ Notes for the user

## This apps required google API in order to be able upload the files, create the folder and modify the spreadsheet. Therefore, you do need to connect the app to your own google API through the creation of OAuth2.0 Google Cloud added with Google Sheets API and Google Drive API with the steps provided by the official [Android- Setting Up OAuth2.0](https://support.google.com/googleapi/answer/6158849?hl=en#zippy=%2Cnative-applications%2Candroid)
---

# ℹ️ General steps of how to use the app

1. Download the .apk file and install on your own phone.
2. Login your own google account.
3. Press the "Receipt Upload".
4. Select the photo from the gallery or take photo from the camera with the corresponding buttons.
5. Press the drop down and create a category with your own naming.
6. Select the date of the receipt printed.
7. Optionally, edit the filename, else the filename generate base on category_date format
8. Press upload button.

- For the first time setup, it will check whether folder correspond to the category exist in your own Google Drive, if not, it will create a new one and upload the photo to the folder correspond to the category. The app also will check whether the spreadsheet named "InvoiceLog" create in your google drive, if not, it will create new one and it will append new spreadsheet section named based on the category, and append the information into the spreadsheet.

# 😃 Epilogue

This is solely just a solution to solve a problem that others might faced with, and I glad this app can be solve the problem that rooted me for months. There could be much more improvements and recommendation to be made including an option where uploading E-Invoice file is possible, OCR ability to reconise the invoice code for better verification and reference purpose, and maybe even a new API where E-invoice file could be automatically obtain from website, upload and append.

*Note: Icon used:* 
<a href="https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/invoice" title="invoice icons">Invoice icons created by Ubaid El-Ahyar Alyafizi - Flaticon</a>

_Note: You reached the end of the file..._
